# Sound Wave Generator

This project is a simple command-line application written in C++ that generates a sound wave audio file in the WAV format, given different frequencies.

## Requirements

- C++ compiler (supports C++11)
- libsndfile library

## Installation

To install libsndfile, you can usually use a package manager. Here are some examples:

For Ubuntu/Debian:

```
sudo apt-get install libsndfile1-dev
```

For Fedora/RHEL/CentOS:

```
sudo dnf install libsndfile-devel
```

For macOS:

```
brew install libsndfile
```

## Usage

To compile the program, navigate to the directory containing the source file (let's say it's named waveForms.cpp), and use the following command:

```
g++ main.cpp waveForms.cpp -o main -lsndfile
```

To run the output binary, use this command:

```
./main
```

Then select frequency and duration:
<filename> <frequency> <duration> <waveform>

```
./main sine 3 300 600 900
```

When run, the program will create a file named audio.wav in the same directory, containing a WAV file with the provided frequencies and duration.

## Notation

Code runs between 0(n) and 0(1) time

## Code Overview

The code works by generating a buffer of audio samples for multiple audio waves at different frequencies, then writing this buffer to a WAV file.

The SAMPLE_RATE constant defines the number of samples per second of audio. Frequencies are provided as command line arguments. The TWO_PI constant is just 2\*Pi, representing a full circle in radians. The MAX_AMPLITUDE constant determines the maximum amplitude of the audio wave.

The main function first calculates the increment for each sample to generate the correct frequency of an audio wave. Then it creates a buffer and fills it with the specified duration of audio samples for each frequency. Each sample is generated by taking the audio of the current position in the wave, then scaling and converting the [-1,1] range of the waveform function to the range of a 16-bit signed integer.

After generating the audio data, the function sets up the information structure for libsndfile (sfinfo), opens the output file (audio.wav), writes the audio data to it, and finally closes the file

## Note

This is a basic example and does not handle any errors that might occur during file writing. It also assumes that the system's short data type is 16 bits and little-endian, as this is what the .wav format expects. The program may need to be adjusted for systems with different configurations.

Make sure to replace main.cpp with the correct filename if it's different, and ensure that you are in the correct directory where your source files are located.

## Contributor

Erik Williams
